DW reports from the scene of the mass shooting in Hamburg
Police said the background and potential motive behind the shooting which occurred during a Jehovah's Witnesses event, were unclear.
Police spokesperson Holger Vehren that after officers arrived and found people with apparent gunshot wounds on the ground floor, they heard a shot from an upper floor and found a fatally wounded person upstairs.
That individual may have been the shooter, Vehren said, adding that there was no indication a shooter was on the run. He said it appeared likely that the perpetrator was either in the building or among the dead.
Police did not need to use their firearms, Vehren said.
"According to the current state of affairs, we assume that there is one perpetrator," Hamburg police later said on Twitter.
Two onlookers told the German n-tv television channel that they heard 12 gunshots. A student who lives nearby told Germany's DPA news agency there were four periods of shooting.
"There were always several shots in these periods, roughly at intervals of 20 seconds to a minute," the student said.
The city-state's Interior Senator, Andy Grote, said special forces were deployed to secure the area.
Residents living nearby were initially warned not to leave their homes amid the ongoing operation, but they were later told there was no longer a threat in the area.
The Jehovah's Witnesses in Germany association issued a statement saying, "The religious community is deeply saddened by the horrific attack on its members at the Kingdom Hall in Hamburg after a religious service."
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called the shooting "a brutal act of violence" and tweeted saying, "My thoughts are with them and their loved ones."
Several people were killed when shots were fired at a Jehovah's Witnesses event
Hamburg Mayor Peter Tschentscher called the incident "shocking."
"I extend my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims," he wrote on Twitter.
"The forces are working at full speed to pursue the perpetrators and clarify the background."
German Interior Minister Nancy Faeser said she was "shocked" by the shooting.
